# CS-465-Full-Stack-Dev

Architecture
•	Compare and contrast the types of frontend development you used in your full stack project, including Express HTML, JavaScript, and the single-page application (SPA).
  o	This course offered a number of incremental changes by using more modern frameworks. By starting with static HTML, the project showed how a site may have been programmed in the past. However, through the addition of additional tools like Express and a Single Page Application, we were able to create a modular, reactive site, which was able to pull information from a separate database. This allows for the maintenance of a database separate from the site itself, allowing for much easier CRUD functionality for the site as a whole. These changes make it much easier for Travlr’s administrators to add, remove and update trip information on the fly, without the need to re-code the site.
•	Why did the backend use a NoSQL MongoDB database?
  o	As mentioned earlier, the ability to edit a database rather than hard-coding a site allows for better administration of records. Through functionality added to our Single-Page Application, we are able to construct JSON requests to Create, Read, Update and Destroy records easily, where this would be more complex using something like SQL.
Functionality
•	How is JSON different from Javascript and how does JSON tie together the frontend and backend development pieces?
  o	JSON is a markup language for objects in a database, meaning that rather than storing large objects, or rows in a database, each record can be a self-contained entry with its own fields and data. Javascript, on the other hand, is a programming language used to create web applications.  JSON ties the front and back end together by allowing the site to pull requests in JSON format from the database and populate this information into the site’s front end.
•	Provide instances in the full stack process when you refactored code to improve functionality and efficiencies, and name the benefits that come from reusable user interface (UI) components.
  o	One upgrade that really stood out to me was the addition of the Single-Page application. The fact that we can use a database to dynamically create websites from a single template is a hugely advantageous, modular design that improves development and administration for users. Reusable components fit the mantra of developing reusable code, and ensure ease of development by ensuring that any changes that need to be made can be done to a single source of truth for the whole site, without having to manually change the site for each individual page.
 
Testing
•	Methods for request and retrieval necessitate various types of API testing of endpoints, in addition to the difficulties of testing with added layers of security. Explain your understanding of methods, endpoints, and security in a full stack application.
  o	The use of methods in web full-stack development add a degree of reusability to code developed for sites. Methods are re-usable blocks of code which can be called by name and run multiple times when called by a program. This saves developers from having to rewrite the same code many times, and means that editing code once will make those changes effective any time the method is called by the application.
  o	Endpoints are the devices used to access an application. Most of the time, these devices will be computers or mobile devices, controlled by users. Since these endpoints are controlled by strangers most of the time, it’s important to ensure that any developed application with exposure to the web is hardened against attack from a number of cyber threats, such as scripting attacks and authentication forgery.
  o	The most important security consideration for sites is proper authentication, especially for admin pages. In addition, proper authentication is important when running functions on the site itself, and ensuring that only authorized users can do things like updating or accessing records is crucial to an application’s success.
Reflection
•	How has this course helped you in reaching your professional goals? What skills have you learned, developed, or mastered in this course to help you become a more marketable candidate in your career field?
  o	This course and the project within it have helped my understanding of web app development. I hope to become a software developer after graduating, and one of the most likely spaces for finding a job is in web development. This course has helped me develop a responsive, functional website to show in a portfolio. The project also taught me how to use things like routes to handle information flow throughout a web application.

